Founded on 7th October 2016 the University population has risen to 2000 students undertaking Masters, Undergraduate, Diploma and Certificate programs with established linkages with multiple global Universities.


"The university has the perfect environment for students to learn. Every parent who brought his or her child to be admitted to the university was very happy because he or she was sure that the child will 100% concentrate and leave the campus with the best degree."
quote by Beth Wangari, TTU student 2017: 

The mission of the University is to produce leaders and professionals in engineering, science and entrepreneurship through knowledge creation, dissemination and application of socio-economic development

The vision is to be a premier University in education, training, research, innovation and community outreach for sustainable development.
Taita Taveta University programs are guided by its Mission and Vision, and is proud as a mining and mineral processing engineer’s hub. Currently TTU has four schools namely School of Mines and Engineering, School of Business Economics and Social Sciences, School of Science and Informatics and School of Agriculture, Earth and Environmental Sciences.
By focusing on technology, entrepreneurship and commerce, TTU aligns its programs with Kenya’s Vision 2030 and the Millennium Development Goals.
The University’s high quality training is affirmed by the graduates as they hit the job market with their professionalism, innovativeness and ethical conduct making them stand out from the rest.

TTU History
TTU opened her gates in 2007 as Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) Taita Taveta Campus and later in 2011 was upgraded to a Constituent until 7th October 2016 when it was given a charter to be a fully fledged university.
Due to her very attractive courses, the population in the University has risen to 2000 students undertaking Masters’, Undergraduate, Diploma and Certificate programs. The University has a constant presence of international scholars through its established international linkages with reputable Universities across the world.
Professional Academic Mission

Environment
Parents and students will find the University’s tranquil studying environment ideal for learning. Extensive research and practical exposure guided by experienced lecturers ensures that students are able to understand and internalize what they learn.
The University recognizes co-curricular activities as supplements in classroom education thus the sporting facilities which include soccer stadium, rugby, basketball, hockey, and indoor games with well-trained coaches make our students excel in University games to develop their talents and personality.
Students are motivated through continuous workshops, seminar, and tutorials from guest speakers, educational tours, and organized counselling sessions. TTU has also embraced partnerships with the Counties in the Coast Region and is working to assist in the transformation of the counties in the Coast Region.
The hospitable and friendly community around Taita Taveta welcomes students from all walks of life to study at the Home of Ideas.

recruitment video
https://youtu.be/B0m2gTzoyw8    

Strategic Pillars:
Pillar 1: Excellence in Research, Teaching, and Engagement
https://studyinkenya.co.ke/courses-offered-at-taita-taveta-university-college

Pillar 2: Facilities and Learning Environment
Pillar 3: Student Management and Experience
Pillar 4: Human Resource Capacity
Pillar 5: Financing and Resource Mobilization
Pillar 6: Strategic Leadership, Management, and Good Corporate Governance
TAITA TAVETA UNIVERSITY
TAIT¬A¬GIS
Department of Geosciences and Geography of the University of Helsinki has received funding from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Finland for "TAITAGIS - Improving capacity, quality and access of Geoinformatics teaching, research and daily application in Taita Taveta County, Kenya". TAITAGIS jointly developed Master’s degree programme in Geoinformatics for students at the Taita Taveta University (TTU) in Kenya (partner HEI), and building teachers capacity through Training of Trainers (ToT) education in Geoinformatics.
The jointly developed Master’s Degree Programme in Geoinformatics with University of Helsinki greatly supports the vision of the TTU to become a regional hub of geoinformatics and mapping to serve the training needs of different organizations not only in Kenya but also in northern Tanzania where the demand for geospatial skills is high.

