TEXT
Taita Taveta University
Home of Ideas
Founded on 7th October 2016 the University population has risen to 2000 students undertaking Masters, Undergraduate, Diploma and Certificate programs with established linkages with multiple global Universities.
"The university has the perfect environment for students to learn. Every parent who brought his or her child to be admitted to the university was very happy because he or she was sure that the child will 100% concentrate and leave the campus with the best degree. " Beth Wangari 2017
Vision
Taita Taveta University programs are guided by its Mission and Vision, and is proud as a mining and mineral processing engineer’s hub. Currently TTU has four schools namely School of Mines and Engineering, School of Business Economics and Social Sciences, School of Science and Informatics and School of Agriculture, Earth and Environmental Sciences.
showing the location of TTU in relation to the coast and the national capital
Strategic Pillars
Pillar 1: Excellence in Research, Teaching, and Engagement
https://studyinkenya.co.ke/courses-offered-at-taita-taveta-university-college
Students are motivated through continuous workshops, seminar, and tutorials from guest speakers, educational tours, and organized counselling sessions. TTU has also embraced partnerships with the Counties in the Coast Region and is working to assist in the transformation of the counties in the Coast Region.
Pillar 2: Facilities
Taita Taveta Campus is situated in a serene environment conducive for learning, near the city of Voi. The environment provides a laboratory for student learning in the geography of Taita Hills.
https://blogs.helsinki.fi/taita-research-station/geography-of-taita/
Parents and students will find the University’s tranquil studying environment ideal for learning.
The University recognizes co-curricular activities as supplements in classroom education thus the sporting facilities which include soccer stadium, rugby, basketball, hockey, and indoor games with well-trained coaches make our students excel in University games to develop their talents and personality.
Pillar 3: Student Experience
Academic research and practical exposure guided by experienced lecturers ensures that students are able to understand and internalize what they learn.
Students are motivated through continuous workshops, seminar, and tutorials from guest speakers, educational tours, and organized counselling sessions. TTU has also embraced partnerships with the Counties in the Coast Region and is working to assist in the transformation of the Coast Region.
https://youtu.be/B0m2gTzoyw8    recruitment video
Pillar 4: Human Resources
The human resources of the university include faculty and staff from many areas of expertise.
The hospitable and friendly community around Taita Taveta welcomes students from all walks of life to study at the Home of Ideas.
Pillar 5 & 6: Financing, Resources and Leadership
The university leadership and financing focus on its great potential. By focusing on technology, entrepreneurship and commerce, TTU aligns its programs with Kenya’s Vision 2030 and the Millennium Development Goals.
The University’s high quality training is affirmed by the graduates as they hit the job market with their professionalism, innovativeness and ethical conduct making them stand out from the rest.
Academic Focus on Engineering, Business, Informatics and the Earth
The mission of the University is to produce leaders and professionals in engineering, science and entrepreneurship through knowledge creation, dissemination and application of socio-economic development.
Taita Taveta University Vice Chancellor Prof. Fred Simiyu Barasa described that the University has been and continues to be on the forefront on issues to deal with the Mining Sector.
"In collaboration with the National Goverment, Jumuiya ya Kaunti za Pwani, BRICS and CEMEREM patners, the University has developed training programmes for small scale and artisanal miners, participated in mining sector policy formulation and continues to engage key stakeholders in the industry in order to come up with reliable solutions for the growth of the mining sector" ---
TAIT¬A¬GIS, The jointly developed Master’s Degree Programme in Geoinformatics with University of Helsinki greatly supports the vision of the TTU to become a regional hub of geoinformatics and mapping to serve the training needs of different organizations not only in Kenya but also in northern Tanzania where the demand for geospatial skills is high.
The vision of Taita Taveta is to be a premier university in education, training, research, innovation and community outreach for sustainable development.
